---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0 - How to install LAMP Stack with Wordpress"
date:   2020-09-03 15:59:25 -0700
categories: jekyll blogs
auther: "Namtae"
---

First, Install apache2

		$ sudo apt-get install apache2

    Then start apahce2

        $ service apache2 start

        Using Apache2 service command to start/stop/restart/status

		    $ service apache2 command

            Command options -- start, stop, restart, status

    Location of apache2 file

        /etc/apache2 - for apache2 config
        /var/www/html - for web server file (how the website will look like)
	
    Checking the web server is running with apache2 by 
        Enter address http://localhost
        Enter address of your Raspberry pi IP address 
		$ hostname -I 


Second, Install php

	    $ sudo apt-get install php -y

	Test PHP
			$ cd /var/www/html
			$ sudo nano index.php
        Type in -> <?php echo “hello world”; ?> 
            $ sudo rm index.html
            $ service apache2 restart

    Checking the web server is running with php by
		Enter address http://localhost


Third, Install Mysql

	    $ sudo apt-get install mariadb-server php-mysql -y

Fourth, Install Wordpress 

		$ cd /var/www/html
		$ sudo rm *
		$ sudo wget http://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz
		$ sudo tar xzf latest.tar.gz
		$ sudo mv wordpress/* .
		$ sudo rm -rf wordpress latest.tar.gz
		$ tress -L 1 		// to see all the contents of a WordPress
		$ sudo chown -R www-data: . 
    
    Set up your WordPress Database

		$ sudo mysql_secure_installation

        You will be asked Enter current password for root (enter for none): — press Enter.
            - Type in Y and press Enter to Set root password?.
            - Type in a password at the New password: prompt, and press Enter. Important: remember this root password, as you will need it later to set up WordPress.
            - Type in Y to Remove anonymous users.
            - Type in Y to Disallow root login remotely.
            - Type in Y to Remove test database and access to it.
            - Type in Y to Reload privilege tables now.
        When complete, you will see the message All done! and Thanks for using MariaDB!.

	Create the WordPress database

		$ sudo mysql -uroot -p
			
            This will log you inside of the mysql database
			    Enter the password that you created earlier 
			    $ CREATE DATABASE wordpress;
                $ GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON wordpress.* TO 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'YOURPASSWORD';
            For change to take effect, you will need to flush the database privileges
                $ FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
            
            Exit the database ctrl+D 


Lastly, WordPress Configuration  
		
        Enter address http://localhost
        
    You will need to setup-configuration such as language, etc
        
        Once you see Welcome to Wordpress page then click "Let's go!"

        Now fill out the basic site information as follows:
            Database Name:	wordpress
            User Name:		root
            Password:		<YOUR PASSWORD>
            Database Host:	localhost
            Table Prefix:		wp_
		Click Submit
		Click Run the install button

To login as Admin 

Enter http://localhost/wp-admin
		
